# MODEL1006230118: Saucerman2003_CardiacMyocyte_BetaAdrenergic

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230118.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230118.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Modeling beta-adrenergic control of cardiac myocyte contractility in silico.**   
Saucerman JJ, Brunton LL, Michailova AP, McCulloch AD. _J Biol Chem_ 2003 Nov
28;278(48):47997-8003 [12972422](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12972422)
,  
**Abstract:**   
The beta-adrenergic signaling pathway regulates cardiac myocyte contractility
through a combination of feedforward and feedback mechanisms. We used systems
analysis to investigate how the components and topology of this signaling
network permit neurohormonal control of excitation-contraction coupling in the
rat ventricular myocyte. A kinetic model integrating beta-adrenergic signaling
with excitation-contraction coupling was formulated, and each subsystem was
validated with independent biochemical and physiological measurements. Model
analysis was used to investigate quantitatively the effects of specific
molecular perturbations. 3-Fold overexpression of adenylyl cyclase in the
model allowed an 85% higher rate of cyclic AMP synthesis than an equivalent
overexpression of beta 1-adrenergic receptor, and manipulating the affinity of
Gs alpha for adenylyl cyclase was a more potent regulator of cyclic AMP
production. The model predicted that less than 40% of adenylyl cyclase
molecules may be stimulated under maximal receptor activation, and an
experimental protocol is suggested for validating this prediction. The model
also predicted that the endogenous heat-stable protein kinase inhibitor may
enhance basal cyclic AMP buffering by 68% and increasing the apparent Hill
coefficient of protein kinase A activation from 1.0 to 2.0. Finally,
phosphorylation of the L-type calcium channel and phospholamban were found
sufficient to predict the dominant changes in myocyte contractility, including
a 2.6x increase in systolic calcium (inotropy) and a 28% decrease in calcium
half-relaxation time (lusitropy). By performing systems analysis, the
consequences of molecular perturbations in the beta-adrenergic signaling
network may be understood within the context of integrative cellular
physiology.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Saucerman JJ, Brunton LL, Michailova AP, McCulloch
AD. (2003) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/5ccd8c5829be3343ba11203393cb1501)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Geoffrey Nunns**   
gnunns1@jhu.edu  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


